OK now let's talk about the concept of overflowing.
You have declared a variable of type byte code number and assign it to 255.
As I told you earlier in the slide 255 is the largest value you can store in a byte.
Now in the next line I'm increasing the value of number by 1 and trying to store 256 in the number.
But if you compile the application and display number on the console you'll see 0.
And this is what we call overflowing.
So we have exceeded the boundary of the byte data type in C-sharp by default.
We don't have overflow checking which means we can modify the value of a viable add runtime and if we
go beyond the boundary of it's underlying data type we will get overflow.
Now sometimes this is not desirable in your application.
You want to stop water flowing.
If that's the case you need to use the check Keyworth.
So here is how it works.
You have to check key word followed by curly braces which indicate the code block and inside that block
we have the variable declaration and any kind of Earth mining operations with this code overflow will
not happen at runtime.
Instead an exception will be thrown and the program will crash unless you handle the exception.
The topic of exceptions is an advanced topic and I've covered it in my C# advanced course.
For now all I want you to know is that if you use the check keyword overflow a lot happen and instead
the program will throw an exception.
Now do we really need that in reality.
Honestly I have never ever ever came across this situation.
Because if I was concerned that in this case my number variable would overflow.
I would just simply use the short data type instead of byte but I decided to include the concept of
overflowing because I wanted my C Sharp course to be comprehensive So just be aware of that.
In case you hear about overflowing summer but you're probably not going to use that in the real world
in the next lecture we're going to talk about the concept of scope